# Hello cloud-init

The purpose of this communication is to provide a status update and
highlights for any interesting subjects from cloud-init upstream. If
you would like to reach the server team, you can find us at
the #cloud-init channel on Freenode. Alternatively, you can sign up
and use the cloud-init [mailing list](mailto:cloud-init@lists.launchpad.net)
[cloud-init discourse hub](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/server/cloud-init) for more
discussion.

## Spotlight:


 * Relocation of primary upstream IRC communication from Freenode to Libera.chat#cloud-init due to political dynamics related to Freenode staff resignation. Please bring all ongoing IRC discussions to Libera.chat #cloud-init. We will keep a few clients open on Freenode #cloud-init for a while to help transition folks.
 * We plan on retiring antiquated and exlusive branch naming practices by renamining our primary upstream development branch from master to main. An email will me sent to the cloud-init mailing list to describe this change and solicit concerns or feedback.
 * Cloud-init Stable Release Update 21.2 discovered a bug in testing. We are working to resolve that bug and the release will be published to Bionic, Focal, Groovy and Hirsute.

## [cloud-init](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init)

    - Docs: Replace all freenode references with libera (#912)
    - openbsd/net: flush the route table on net restart (#908)
      [Gonéri Le Bouder]
    - Add Rocky Linux support to cloud-init (#906) [Louis Abel]
    - Add "esposem" as contributor (#907) [Emanuele Giuseppe Esposito]
    - Add integration test for #868 (#901)
    - Added support for importing keys via primary/security mirror clauses
      (#882) [Paul Goins] (LP: #1925395)

## [pycloudlib](https://github.com/canonical/pycloudlib)

    - Make OCI's availability domain required

## Contact the cloud-init upstream developers

- Chat on #cloud-init on Freenode
- Email the [cloud-init mailing list](mailto:cloud-init@lists.launchpad.net)
- Find us on the [Ubuntu Community Hub - cloud-init channel](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/server/cloud-init)
